Add AGENTS.md files for major ucx subdirs (#11442)
openucx/ucx: src/ucp/AGENTS.md

# Agent Guide: src/ucp

> UCP is the high-level protocol layer (`libucp.la`). It composes UCT

Reviewer: libucp.so

transports into a single endpoint that exposes tag matching, streams, RMA,
atomics, active messages, and sockaddr-based connection establishment to
applications. Almost every meaningful UCX feature lives here.

## Core Object Graph

- `ucp_context_t` (`core/ucp_context.[ch]`) — global resources, MD list,
  configuration. One per process (typically).
- `ucp_worker_t` (`core/ucp_worker.[ch]`) — async progress engine. Owns one
  `uct_worker_t` plus per-resource `ucp_worker_iface_t` slots.
- `ucp_ep_t` (`core/ucp_ep.[ch]`) — peer endpoint composed of multiple

>   *lanes*. Each lane is one `uct_ep_t` chosen for a specific role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  *lanes*. Each lane is one `uct_ep_t` chosen for one or more roles
```

  (AM, RMA, AMO, tag, CM, …). Lane roles are encoded in
  `proto/lane_type.h`.
- `ucp_request_t` (`core/ucp_request.[ch]`) — operation in flight. Pooled,
  reused; carries a state machine specific to the protocol that owns it.
- `ucp_rkey_t` (`core/ucp_rkey.[ch]`) — packed remote key for RMA/AMO.
- `ucp_listener_t` / `ucp_proxy_ep_t` — sockaddr listener and the wireup
  proxy endpoint used during handshake.

## Subdirectory Map

- `api/` — public C headers (`ucp.h`, `ucp_def.h`, `ucp_compat.h`,
  experimental `ucpx.h`, `device/`). ABI-stable. `ucpx.h` only ships when
  `--enable-experimental-api`.
- `core/` — the objects above plus `ucp_mm` (memory handles), `ucp_am`

>   (user AM dispatch), `ucp_device` (device-side stubs), `ucp_vfs`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `core/` — implementation of UCP core objects such as context, worker, endpoint, etc
```

>   `ucp_thread`. Inline fast paths live in `*.inl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `core/` — implementation of core objects in UCP layer - all objects defined in the API such as context, worker, endpoint, etc.
```

  rendezvous trigger, hardware tag offload (`offload/`).
- `am/` — active-message eager paths (`single`/`multi`) and AM-rndv glue.
- `rma/` — PUT/GET (`am` and `offload` paths), atomics (`basic`, `offload`,
  `sw`), `rma_send`, `flush`.
- `stream/` — stream send/recv (`stream_send`, `stream_multi`,
  `stream_recv`).
- `dt/` — datatype iterators: contiguous, IOV, generic (user callbacks).
  All higher protocols pack/unpack through `datatype_iter_t`.

## Conventions

- Every endpoint operation goes through a **proto** chosen by `proto_select`
  at first use; legacy direct paths exist for some flows but new code should
  plug into the proto framework (see `proto/AGENTS.md`).
- Lanes are numbered per-ep; mapping from semantic role (AM lane, tag lane,
  rkey-pointer lane, CM lane, …) is stored on the ep config and must be
  re-resolved after reconfiguration (`proto_reconfig.c`).
- `ucp_request_t` is allocated from a pool — never store pointers into it
  across `ucp_worker_progress()` calls without taking a ref. Use the
  helpers in `core/ucp_request.inl`.
- Anything reachable from user-visible state must round-trip through

>   serialization in `wireup/address.c` if it has to cross the wire.

Reviewer: need to say it's for wireup

- Inline fast-path helpers live in `*.inl` next to the matching `.h`. Keep

>   out-of-line slow paths in the corresponding `.c`.

Reviewer: it's not ucp specific

- Public `ucp.h` constants and types are part of the ABI — additions only,

>   no renumbering. Experimental additions go to `ucpx.h`.

Reviewer: we can add AGENTS.md later for API conventions; ucpx.h is not used

## Pointers

- Selection of UCT transports for a peer happens in
  `wireup/select.c` → `ucp_wireup_select_lanes`.
- Proto-layer entry: `ucp_proto_request_send_op` in
  `proto/proto_common.inl`.
- Proto cost model and tie-breakers: `proto/proto_perf.[ch]`,

>   `proto/proto_select.c`.

Reviewer: there is already AGENTS.md in proto and wireup

- Tests: `test/gtest/ucp/` — most files target one feature
  (`test_ucp_tag*`, `test_ucp_rma*`, `test_ucp_proto*`, etc.).
- Tools: `ucx_info -e` introspects the ep proto matrix; profiling consumes
  `ucs/profile`.

> - Style/perf rules: `docs/CodeStyle.md`, `docs/OptimizationStyle.md`.

Reviewer: IMO it's redundant
